Oh
I'm going to show you how to make a
really simple vegetable soup now today
to demonstrate I'm going to make a
carrot and coriander but this method is
one you can use for using up any kinds
of root vegetables any vegetables really
it's a really great economical way of
making food for your family now
I'm going to start with some oil and at
this stage I'm going to add anything I
want to flavor it so I've got onions and
so I'm not wasting anything I'm going to
add some coriander leaves later I've
just topped up my coriander stalks
because that gives you a lot of flavor
as well so those are going to go into
this is the stage I'll add anything like
celery
I'd add leeks if I was making leek and
potato ginger anything like that which
needs to be softened a bit in oil first
and isn't going to cook simply through
sweating with the stock going to
increase my heat a little bit in my pan
and we just want to cook them for a
couple of minutes to get them soft and
when you're making a vegetable soup like
this you can add as much vegetables as
you want and then just top it up with
stock so they're starting to soften now
I'm going to add the spices that I want
to use I've got some ground coriander
here it's important to cook out spices
your flavoring your soups with so you
want to get them in just for the last
couple of minutes with the onions so
your base vegetables are in there
they're nice and soft your spices are
cooked out and now it's time to go in
with your main vegetable that you want
to flavor your soup with so I've got
some carrots now these are all cut to
approximately the same size because I
want them to cook evenly and in the same
amount of time and just for another
minute I'm going to cook them around
just to start to let the heat soften
them before I add my stock
so as I said this would work great with
potatoes we parcel it something like
that for the winter if you were making a
summery soup you could do carrots add
some beans make it like a minestrone so
I've got some heat into my carrots now
and this is when I'm going to add my
vegetable stock again I'm just going to
add enough to just about cover the veg
and I'm going to turn up the heat on
that and simmer it until my veggie
tender so that's going to take probably
with carrots at size about 10 to 15
minutes to get soft now I've got one
that I prepared earlier so once your
carrots have been cooking they're lovely
in tenders they'd be ready to eat now
you want to let it just cool for a
minute before you blend it because you
don't want to be working with really
boiling hot liquids so that's called for
a bit now I'm also going to add a little
bit of cream so I've got that in and now
I'm going to go straight to my mixer if
you haven't got one of these just gently
ladle it into a blender and use a
blender
[Music]
ah
so that soup is nice and blended now
I've left it a little bit chunky because
I like that if you are doing yours in a
blend only want it to be to still have
some chunks of vegetable in it just hold
a little bit back and then blend the
rest and remix it in afterwards I'm just
going to season it this is also the
stage as well wait if you want to change
the thickness at all it's too thick you
didn't have enough stockin to start you
can just pour a bit in now just put it
back on to heat up stir that into your
soup
this is my simple currant coriander to
open as I said any other vegetables just
use the same sort of method I like the
consistency here and then I'm going to
use some of those coriander leaves just
to scatter over the top just to serve
and that's how you make a really simple
vegetable soup